Doc: avd to cvaas (#3089)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/eos_designs/docs/how-to/avd-to-cvaas.md

# The purpose of this tutorial is to review the steps required in order to integrate AVD with Arista CVaaS.

![Figure: 1](../../../../media/create_account.png)

## Within CVaaS navigate to:

> ### Settings and Tools --> Access Control --> Service Accounts --> "New Service Account"

Reviewer: new line between headings

Reviewer: might be nice to also has more screenshots, feel free to re-use the screenshots from our ansible-cvp documentation: https://github.com/aristanetworks/ansible-cvp/blob/devel/ansible_collections/arista/cvp/docs/how-to/cvp-authentication.md#how-to-generate-service-account-tokens

Author: Yep, I like your screenshots better so I updated to them.
Added the line between headings.

```text
Account name: AVD
Description: "Automation with AVD"
Give a description under "Generated Service Account Token"
Specify the "valid until" date.
Make sure to copy the generated password. You only get view it once.
Click "Save" to exit the dialogue box. 
```
![Figure: 2](../../../../media/account_settings.png)

> 

Reviewer: can we add a note here that the service-account name in general should match the EOS username/userId of the GUI user too, e.g.: `> NOTE The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls might fail due to authorization denial.`

Author: Good call on the note, added.

## Add CVAAS to your Ansible inventory file:

```text
DC1:
  children:
    CVAAS:
      hosts:
        cvaas:
```

## Create a folder under group_vars named "CVAAS" and add a file named "cvaas_auth.yml". Your file should look similar to this:

```text
ansible_host: www.arista.io
ansible_user: cvaas
# Good until 1/24/2030 <update to expiration date of token that was generated in CVaaS>
# While it is not required in a production environment it is advised to use Ansible Vault.

ansible_ssh_pass: <super long password> (generated in CVP when AVD service account was created)
ansible_connection: httpapi
ansible_network_os: eos
ansible_httpapi_use_ssl: True
ansible_httpapi_validate_certs: True
ansible_httpapi_port: 443
```

## Testing connectivity and authentication between AVD and CVaaS.

> ```text

Reviewer: small nit: add new line

Author: added

root@6e3d94f50dca:/workspace# ansible-playbook playbooks/cvaas_facts.yml

PLAY [Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.] *********************************************************************************************************************************

TASK [Gather CVaaS facts from cvaas] ************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [cvaas]

PLAY RECAP **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
cvaas                      : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0  
```

## Sample playbook cvaas_facts.yml

> ```text

Reviewer: small nit: add new line

Author: added

---
- name: Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.
  hosts: cvaas
  connection: local
  gather_facts: no
  collections:
    - arista.cvp

  tasks:
    - name: "Gather CVaaS facts from {{ inventory_hostname }}"
      cv_facts:
      register: cvp_facts
```

If the playbook runs and completes you have confirmed successful communication with CVaaS.
Adding -vvv to increase verbosity will give you additional information regarding your CVaaS instance when running the cvaas_facts.yml playbook.

Now that AVD is talking to the CVaaS service you can run the "cvaas_deploy.yml" playbook to build out your containers, move devices to the proper container and then apply the generated config to the device.

## Sample playbook cvaas_deploy.yml

> ```text

Reviewer: small nit: add new line

Author: Appreciate the feedback, very new to MD. Working on getting these changes added.

## Within CVaaS navigate to

## Steps to create service accounts on CloudVision

1. Go to Settings and Tools --> Access Control --> Service Accounts --> click `+ New Service Account`

```text
Account name: AVD
Description: "Automation with AVD"
Give a description under "Generated Service Account Token"
Specify the "valid until" date.
Make sure to copy the generated password. You only get view it once.
Click "Save" to exit the dialogue box.
```

![Figure: 1](../../../../media/serviceaccount1.png)
![Figure: 2](../../../../media/serviceaccount2.png)
![Figure: 3](../../../../media/serviceaccount3.png)

> NOTE The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls might fail due to authorization denial.

## Add CVAAS to your Ansible inventory file

```text
DC1:
  children:
    CVAAS:
      hosts:
        cvaas:
```

## Adding group variables for the CVaaS instance

Create a folder under `group_vars` named `CVAAS` and add a file named `cvaas_auth.yml`. Your file should look similar to this:

```text
ansible_host: www.arista.io

> ansible_user: cvaas

Reviewer: should we add a note here that this must be either `cvaas` or `svc_account` regardless of what your username is, as these two are specially treated to tell the module's backend to use a service account token  as the bearer token rather the legacy user/password based auth in on-prem? I had to add something like this to the cvaas-migration repo as some folks found it confusing: https://github.com/arista-netdevops-community/cvaas-migration#a-note-on-service-accounts

Reviewer 2: +1, this comes up a lot.  clarifying the correct user would be ideal

Author: Good idea, I've added a very similar note with a few small changes. Please let me know if this works for you.

# How to integrate AVD with CVaaS

The purpose of this tutorial is to review the steps required in order to integrate AVD with Arista CloudVision-as-a-Service.

> 

Reviewer 3: Inserting the snip from below, since it would be nice to know this before starting the step-by-step guide.

```suggestion

!!! info "Important"
    The name of the service account created on CVaaS must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, 
    otherwise device interactive API calls may fail due to authorization denial.
    When using service accounts, on ansible side the `ansible_user` variable must always be `cvaas` or `svc_account`.
    The `cvaas` and `svc_account` are special variable names to notify the client to switch to using service accounts instead of creating a session using the login API with username/password.
    When using service accounts the username is embedded into the token itself so it does not need to be passed in a separate HTTP header on the client side.
    For example when using service accounts we would have the following:

    - on the CV UI the username in Users page and Service Accounts page would be john.smith
    - on EOS in the running config there would be either a local user: `username john.smith privilege 15 role <roleName> <nopassword/secret>` or one in TACACS/RADIUS
    - on ansible side in inventory.yaml the `ansible_user` has to be set to `cvaas` or `svc_account`, e.g.:  `ansible_user: cvaas` or `ansible_user: svc_account`
  and `ansible_password` will reference the service account token, e.g.: `"{{ lookup('file', '/tokens/cvaas.tok')}}"`
    - reference: [ansible-cvp authentication](https://cvp.avd.sh/en/stable/docs/how-to/cvp-authentication/)

```

Author: I have updated this snippet regarding the service account. Please let me know if this is what you wanted.

> ## Within CVaaS navigate to

Reviewer 3: Seems like something is missing here.

Author: Good catch, no longer needed from a previous edit so I removed it.

## Steps to create service accounts on CloudVision

1. Go to Settings and Tools --> Access Control --> Service Accounts --> click `+ New Service Account`

```text
Account name: AVD
Description: "Automation with AVD"
Give a description under "Generated Service Account Token"
Specify the "valid until" date.
Make sure to copy the generated password. You only get view it once.
Click "Save" to exit the dialogue box.
```

![Figure: 1](../../../../media/serviceaccount1.png)
![Figure: 2](../../../../media/serviceaccount2.png)
![Figure: 3](../../../../media/serviceaccount3.png)

> > NOTE The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls might fail due to authorization denial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
!!! note
    The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on
    EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls might fail due to authorization denial.
```

Author: "The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls may fail due to authorization denial." Was mentioned in the note that I moved to the beginning of the document. So would I keep this note also?

## Add CVAAS to your Ansible inventory file

> 

Reviewer 3: We should add some text around this just being an example, and that the CVAAS group should be added outside of any group targeted by the AVD `eos_designs` and `eos_cli_config_gen` roles.

Author: Added some verbiage, please let me know if that works for you.

```text
DC1:
  children:
    CVAAS:
      hosts:
        cvaas:
```

## Adding group variables for the CVaaS instance

Create a folder under `group_vars` named `CVAAS` and add a file named `cvaas_auth.yml`. Your file should look similar to this:

```text
ansible_host: www.arista.io
ansible_user: cvaas
# Good until 1/24/2030 <update to expiration date of token that was generated in CVaaS>

> # While it is not required in a production environment it is advised to use Ansible Vault.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# It is advised to use Ansible Vault for storing the `ansible_password`.
```

It would be nice to add how to do that to the guide

Reviewer 3: You have it at the end of the guide. So maybe keep it out of the snip, and add a link below to the other section.

Author: I have added a link, please let me know if it looks good.

`Click [here](#ansible-vault) for instructions on how to setup Ansible Vault.`

> ansible_ssh_pass: <super long password> (generated in CVP when AVD service account was created)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ansible_password: <service account token> (generated in CVP when AVD service account was created)
```

Author: updated

When using service accounts, on ansible side the `ansible_user` variable must always be `cvaas` or `svc_account`.
The `cvaas` and `svc_account` are special variable names to notify the client to switch to using service accounts instead of creating a session using the login API with username/password.
When using service accounts the username is embedded into the token itself so it does not need to be passed in a separate HTTP header on the client side.
For example when using service accounts we would have the following:

- on the CV UI the username in Users page and Service Accounts page would be john.smith
- on EOS in the running config there would be either a local user: `username john.smith privilege 15 role <roleName> <nopassword/secret>` or one in TACACS/RADIUS
- on ansible side in inventory.yaml the `ansible_user` has to be set to `cvaas` or `svc_account`, e.g.:  `ansible_user: cvaas` or `ansible_user: svc_account`
  and `ansible_password` will reference the service account token, e.g.: `"{{ lookup('file', '/tokens/cvaas.tok')}}"`
- reference: [ansible-cvp authentication](https://cvp.avd.sh/en/stable/docs/how-to/cvp-authentication/)

> 

Reviewer 3: Moved this to the top of the guide.
```suggestion
```

Author: I inserted it after explaining the purpose of the tutorial. Is that where you want it?

Reviewer 3: I have another suggestion (remember to click "view more" in the github gui since it hides a way a lot of the comments on busy PRs)

> ## Testing connectivity and authentication between AVD and CVaaS

Reviewer 3: I would simplify this test by using an ansible ad-hoc command instead of writing another playbook.

```sh
ansible -m arista.cvp.cv_facts_v3 cvaas
```
Depending on the user's ansible.cfg, you may have to add `-i inventory.yml`

Author: Just to make sure I understand add the ad-hoc command  and then remove the section "Sample playbook cvaas_facts.yml" right?

Reviewer 3: Correct, this command can run without a playbook, so you can remove that playbook.

Author: Adding the command and note regarding specifying the inventory file. Updated the note after.

```text
root@6e3d94f50dca:/workspace# ansible-playbook playbooks/cvaas_facts.yml

PLAY [Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.] *********************************************************************************************************************************

TASK [Gather CVaaS facts from cvaas] ************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [cvaas]

PLAY RECAP **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
cvaas                      : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
```

## Sample playbook cvaas_facts.yml

```text
---
- name: Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.
  hosts: cvaas
  connection: local
  gather_facts: no
  collections:
    - arista.cvp

  tasks:
    - name: "Gather CVaaS facts from {{ inventory_hostname }}"

>       cv_facts:

Reviewer 3: Please always use FQCN. Also I think we need to use v3 here @noredistribution 
```suggestion
      arista.cvp.cv_facts_v3:
```

Author: updated

      register: cvp_facts
```

If the playbook runs and completes you have confirmed successful communication with CVaaS.
Adding -vvv to increase verbosity will give you additional information regarding your CVaaS instance when running the cvaas_facts.yml playbook.

Now that AVD is talking to the CVaaS service you can run the "cvaas_deploy.yml" playbook to build out your containers, move devices to the proper container and then apply the generated config to the device.

## Sample playbook cvaas_deploy.yml

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

!!! note
    For details on the supported inputs for `arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp` see the [role documentation](../../../eos_config_deploy_cvp/README.md)

```

Reviewer 3: If you move the file as I suggest, please update this link accordingly. I guess it will just be `../README.md`.

Author: Sounds good, changed to:

    For details on the supported inputs for `arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp` see the [role documentation](../README.md)

```text
---
- name: Configlet upload management
  hosts: cvaas
  connection: local
  gather_facts: no
  tasks:

>   - name: "Uploading configlets to CVaaS"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - name: "Deploying configurations to CVaaS"
```

Author: updated

    import_role:
      name: arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp
    vars:
      container_root: 'DC1_FABRIC'
      configlets_prefix: 'DC1'
      state: present
      cv_collection: v3
      execute_tasks: false
```

Once things are working it's a good idea to use Ansible Vault to encrypt your passwords in a production environment.

```text
ansible-vault encrypt_string '<super long password>' --name 'ansible_ssh_pass'
```

## Key points

1. When creating the vault sometimes there will be an extra "%" sign at the end. Remove this.

          $ANSIBLE_VAULT;1.1;AES256
          31383837323464376439313531333639373431316433636361633239663632663331383264646639
          3535386333356537643233376630636265653566636531390a663433323033653736653939663861
          33313466646363643135353065346439326633326138636331333331333338393332653231643930
          6661353835373731350a303666343334626532313361376361656235323638646264656639653139

>           3437% <------------------Make sure to remove.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    $ANSIBLE_VAULT;1.1;AES256
    31383837323464376439313531333639373431316433636361633239663632663331383264646639
    3535386333356537643233376630636265653566636531390a663433323033653736653939663861
    33313466646363643135353065346439326633326138636331333331333338393332653231643930
    6661353835373731350a303666343334626532313361376361656235323638646264656639653139
    3437% <------------------Make sure to remove.
```

Author: Updated

2. Sometimes when creating your vault there will be so much output that you will overrun the buffer on your CLI window. In order to get around this you can simply write the output to a file and then open up the file to grab the hash.

```text
ansible-vault encrypt_string '<super long password>' --name 'ansible_ssh_pass' >> my_file.txt

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```text
    ansible-vault encrypt_string '<super long password>' --name 'ansible_ssh_pass' >> my_file.txt
    ```
```

Author: Updated

> ## Once Ansible Vault has been added to your config simply add --ask-vault-pass when running the playbook

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Once Ansible Vault has been added to your config simply add --ask-vault-pass when running the playbook
```

Author: Updated

```text
root@6e3d94f50dca:/workspace# ansible-playbook playbooks/cvaas_facts.yml --ask-vault-pass
Vault password:

PLAY [Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.] **************************************************************************************************************************************************

TASK [Gather CVaaS facts from cvaas] *****************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [cvaas]

PLAY RECAP *******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
cvaas                      : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```text
    root@6e3d94f50dca:/workspace# ansible-playbook playbooks/cvaas_facts.yml --ask-vault-pass
    Vault password:

    PLAY [Playbook to demonstrate cv_container module.]
    ***************************************************

    TASK [Gather CVaaS facts from cvaas]
    ***************************************************
    ok: [cvaas]

    PLAY RECAP
    ***************************************************
    cvaas                      : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
    ```
```

Author: updated

> # The purpose of this tutorial is to review the steps required in order to integrate AVD with Arista CVaaS.

Reviewer: I think it might be nicer to make this a sentence and not the tile of the page, e.g.:
```
# How to integrate AVD with CVaaS

The purpose of this tutorial is to review the steps required in order to integrate AVD with Arista CloudVision-as-a-Service.```

Author: Agreed

Author: Agreed

## Within CVaaS navigate to:

> ### Settings and Tools --> Access Control --> Service Accounts --> "New Service Account"

Reviewer: here it might also be better to not make the steps an actual heading and change the wording a bit

e.g.:

```
## Steps to create service accounts on CloudVision

1. Go to Settings and Tools --> Access Control --> Service Accounts --> click `+ New Service Account`

Author: Agreed

Make sure to copy the generated password. You only get view it once.
Click "Save" to exit the dialogue box. 
```

![Figure: 1](../../../../media/serviceaccount1.png)
![Figure: 2](../../../../media/serviceaccount2.png)
![Figure: 3](../../../../media/serviceaccount3.png)

> NOTE The name of the service account must match a username configured to be authorized on EOS, otherwise device interactive API calls might fail due to authorization denial.

> ## Add CVAAS to your Ansible inventory file:

Reviewer: add new line before the heading

Reviewer: I forget but I think we don't need punctuation marks in titles in general, @JulioPDX can you confirm please?

Author: agreed

> ```

Reviewer: instea of having the step in the heading we could have a simplified heading title and the instructions after

```
## Ading group variables for the CVaaS instance

Create a folder under `group_vars` named `CVAAS` and add a file named `cvaas_auth.yml`. Your file should look similar to this:```

Author: Sounds good, updated.

> ## Testing connectivity and authentication between AVD and CVaaS.

Reviewer: dot not needed in titles

Author: agreed
